“Higher education” - we have all heard this term repeated numerous times throughout the span of our academic careers by our parents and teachers. Our parents constantly remind us that we are fortunate to be living in a time where education is easily accessible, and that we should take advantage of it. In school, our teachers also put great emphasis on higher education, dedicating their time and going to great lengths to ensure that we are prepared for it by the time that we graduate from high-school. The key point that they want to make is that the importance of “higher education” shouldn’t be undermined, as it might hamper our chances to attain a brighter future, but having something said to us repeatedly doesn’t always imply that we truly understand the intended message. What about the practicality aspect of “higher education”? University and colleges tend to come with a hefty price-tag, and it is increasing rapidly each year. For some of us, it is becoming unfeasible to allocate such a large amount of our capital to these institution, even with government financial aid. To top it off, there are even skeptics who question the worth of a college degree as employers are becoming dissatisfied with many new graduates. Considering all the factors above, it begs the question, what is “higher education”, and why should we devote a considerable amount of our resources and time to such a thing?
The term “higher education” was something I was familiar with from my early years of adolescence. My parents never had the opportunity to attend college, due to the civil war in their mother country that both my parents had to endure during the time that they were in their twenties. As such, being the first-born child, as well as being fortunate enough to have an option of attending college, my parents made it a requirement, defining what “higher education” meant for me. However, as I progressed through years of schooling, my definition of “higher education” changed. The cause of this came from my first elective class I took in my first year of high-school, Intro to Architecture and Engineering. My teacher was Mr. Collins, and he was the one that guided me through developing my own definition of “higher education” and not the one that was defined by others for me. In every task that he assigned us, he put great emphasis on understanding the purpose for said task. To him, if a person didn’t understand why he or she was investing time and resources into the task, the end result would be unacceptable. Ultimately, this led me to question why my parents insisted that I attend college to receive my “higher education,” as well as related aspects such as the purpose of me attending school at all. 
I became obsessed with the idea of why education systems, such as schools, even existed - why do we subject our children to mandatory schooling, when the majority of them fail to understand the purpose of it? In my quest to uncover the reason, I spent several nights reading research reports, history documentations, and raw data collected by different associations on the topic of education, and over time, my perspective widened exponentially. Education was an important part of human society, from the earliest records of history, as a means for the newer generation to inherit the knowledge and experience that the previous generation acquired. It was what allowed us to progress as a species, as with each new generation, they would leave their imprint by building upon their predecessor’s achievements. In the early days of recorded human history, education took the form of mentorship. A child would learn from his parents and other adults in his or her society through observational learning, and later will succeed the aforementioned generation. It was only until after the development of large settlements where we began to see the creation of institutions that served as places to educate the younger generation. This is what became my definition of “education,” which serves as the foundation for the definition of a “higher education”. Education is the overarching concept, which I partitioned into two phases: “fundamentals education” and “higher education.” Fundamental education is what I would define as K-12 in our current society, as it is responsible for laying the foundation, such as basic reading, writing, and math, that is needed to function in human society. In addition, it informs the newer generations of the history of human society and exposes them to the numerous fields that humans have created, ranging from liberal arts to the sciences. The purpose of this exposure is to broaden their perspective of the world, and to help them perceive it from several angles. As for “higher education,” its purpose is to facilitate the specialized education, reducing the scope into one specific area with the purpose of teaching the student mastery in that field as it is unfeasible to specialize in all aspects of society. Note that this does not only mean attending a university or some other institution of higher level education, but can take the form of mentorship from a professional in the field or any activity that involves learning of a specific area of society. This is my definition of higher education, and it is what drove me to complete my degree in 3 years as well as becoming a head teaching assistant for the University of Houston Computer Science Department, teaching students and helping them succeed in their own respective paths for the past 2 years.
With the definition above, how does someone know if a college is the right path to attain their higher education, especially in today’s society where there is currently a stigma that if one does not earn some sort of diploma from an institution of higher education, they are deemed to fail in life. This is not without basis however, as on average, a person with college degree earns about 80% higher salary than one who does not. [6] Furthermore, logically speaking, an investment of approximately $9,650 a year (In-state) for 4 years totaling about $38,600 can be offset immensely by the salary that can be attained due to the investment in the degree. [1] Due to these pull factors, there exists a mindset that leads people to choose to attend these institutions due to society’s expectations and not for themselves, leading to increased drop-rate and deplorable 4-year graduation rates. As such, what is a college education worth? For some, it is a means of credential. For an employer, a potential hire with at least a college degree is far more attractive than one that does not possess an equivalent degree, but this isn’t necessarily the entire story anymore. In fact, in recent years more and more employers are deeming that a college degree is no longer enough, as many of the new graduates demonstrate poor mastery over their subject despite having the degree. [5] Instead, now they are looking for aspects that differentiate college graduates from each other, such as personal projects or participation in research labs that expand their knowledge in the field. Even in the application process, there are considerably more tests and challenge exercise that are used to determine the candidate mastery over the intended field of work in comparison to a decade ago. Aside from the devaluation of a degree, there are also issues with the graduation rate of college students. In the fall of 2009, the number of students who completed their 4-year degree plan in 6 years was 59% for public institutions, which is discouraging to say the least. The factors contributing to why these numbers are appallingly low stems down to two major problems, cost of attendance and indecisiveness among the student population. In recent decades, the cost of attending a college have increased substantially, doubling in comparison to 2 decades ago, making the barrier of entrance extremely steep for any student who plans to attend college, as well as making it difficult to sustain that cost for 4-6 years. [4] The second reason stems from the “foundational education” of the US education system. Due to the rampant growth of our population as well as a shift in focus of the nation, a flawed education system that is over taxed and starved from resources is created. The most notable cause of said issue was when the U.S. saw a shift in focus of quantity over quality in the beginning of 2000s starting with the 2002 “No Child Left Behind”. The idea was to raise the education level of the nation, which was a noble cause but horribly implemented. Indeed, it managed to accomplish that by drastically improving the math performance of all younger students across the nation, particular those of a disadvantaged background, however at the time of its creation, not a lot of attention was placed in the practicality of the act. This act increased expenditure that the educational system had to undertake due to the number of students they were required to accommodate, however it was an increase not met with adequate funding, leading to the current state of the system of K-12. [2]. Students who graduate from the current “foundational education” are underprepared, misguided, and inexperienced, leading them to either attend college for the wrong reason or choose a major that they will lose interest in sooner or later. Therefore, these types of students are the ones who are more prone to dropping out or switching majors and extending their time spent at the institution.
Aside from the worth of getting a college education, what about gaining admission in the first place? College admission has always been a black-box as how they select prospective students remains a mystery to the masses. All that the students do is submit their information and academic records into the box, which decides whether he or she is accepted or not. Even educators, such as my professor, faculty members, as well as myself are still ignorant to the admission process. Despite our ignorance, there are still ways to determine some tendencies that admission processes tend to follow via statistics. To begin, despite the many efforts to equalize the opportunity granted to the student population, if a student came from the richest quarter of the population, they are 25 times more likely to be accepted into a selective college. The leading reason for this difference resides with the all too well-known college entrance exam, the SAT. The SAT was introduced in 1926, with the purpose of assisting colleges on identifying talented students among the pool of school and student background, but as with many ideas, the implementation can create unwanted results. For the rich, their children have the advantage of attending more prestigious high-schools, as well as being able to afford the expensive SAT prep programs in comparison to the middle and lower classes. An analogy that I found interesting came from a paper by Richard D. Kahlenberg where he states “if the SAT were a 100-yard dash, the advantaged kids would start off 65 yards ahead before the race even began. As to add salt to the wound, recently in September of 2017, the U.S. suffered major damage from a series of hurricanes, notably Harvey and Irma, which hit Texas and Florida respectively. The destruction left by these hurricanes were insurmountable, many people’s homes were destroyed. Unfortunately, some of the residents were caught unexpectedly, having no reserved resources to rely on to assist them through the after-math of this event. These events are what one would categorized as a “catastrophic event,” one that is able to inflict destruction on devastating scale for great numbers of people. Due to these unfortunate occurrences, some students in the affected areas are questioning whether they can even afford to attend college much less prepare for entrance exams. With the destruction of their way of life, the practicality of them attending is becoming more remote. Education is important, but having a shelter to call home and food to eat are vastly more important.
Considering all the factors above, as well the current situation we find ourselves in, many students are questioning if attending college to receive their “higher education” is worth it anymore. In my personal opinion, I say that it is worth it, but not through the common methods of attaining higher education. For those who are at a disadvantage, either from attending a high-school with a broken system or dealing with a catastrophe, I advise you to take some time to consider what you want to do, and your options. If you find a field of work that you are interested in, then invest time into researching it. There are plenty of online resources available for free, such as MIT Open Course Ware where there are classes that can give you a better image of what the field is really like before you make your decisions. As for students who are soon graduating from high school and are currently facing financial issues, or are not sure on their decided specialization field, attend a community college for the time being and complete your core requirements while you gain the means of affording college and decide on your desired field. By no means will this result in a disadvantage on your side, in fact, it is far better than investing large amounts of money each year when you have more urgent issues to attend to, or you choosing to be in a field you are not entirely sure about. Lastly for some students, college may not even be the ideal means of attaining your “higher education”. There are many positions available in the work force that don’t require a college degree, and for those that do, they will likely void the requirement if you can demonstrate your mastery over the subject. What an employer truly looks for is a person who can complete the assigned task with great skill. “Higher education” is important for everyone, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that one has to attend an institution. Rather “higher education” is the ongoing effort to improve upon oneself.
“The Earth is flat”, a statement that most people in today’s society would say that it is pure nonsense, based on prior knowledge. Yet, despite this almost unanimous agreement that the Earth is not flat, there is an increasing amount of people in the world arguing that it is, and willing to defend their grounds adamantly. They, just like any other group with similar ideology, wish to share their ideas with others, and hopefully convince them to agree with their views.  As such, in recent decades, the “Flat-Earth” community have been growing at an incredible rate and with the introduction of the internet, where anyone can share anything without restrictions, the voices of “Flat-Earthers” have amplified far beyond what was possible before. In fact, there is a website dedicated to the notion of “Flat-Earth” known as the “The Flat Earth Society”, where it is “a place for free thinkers and the intellectual exchange of ideas” as well as acting as an archive for the Flat Earth Theory for people who wish to learn about it. [3] Even on social media websites, such as Facebook and YouTube, the Flat Earth theory have been gaining grounds on these mediums as a well, manifesting themselves as either posts or videos. Considering all the above, one might ask, how does an absurd idea such as “Flat Earth” still exist, and even more baffling, why is it gaining popularity? Well, in its core foundation, the “Flat-Earth model” is nothing more than an argument, just like the Spherical Earth model that we have come to accept in today’s world, however as to why one model dominates the others comes down to how effective that argument for that model is. As so, with any argument, there are key components that determines the argument’s effectiveness, namely a clear and concise introduction of the premise, credibility of sources and author, and the logical deductions that supports the claim.
Every argument starts with a premise, followed by the introduction of it, without these the argument will have no foundation to construct its body from. A premise is like a direction - it will dictate where the argument is heading. As such, the introduction of the premise is extremely important as it will set the stage for the intended audience. Failure to introduce it effectively will often leave the audience confused about what point the author is trying to make. This is one of the core components that will influence the argument’s effectiveness. For example, let us analyze an example argument from a video arguing for the “Flat-Earth” theory on how effective it demonstrates the said foundation of an argument. [7] An important note about videos as a medium of communication is that, unlike text based mediums which commonly only have 1 dimension of expression, videos have visual, audio, and text, granting it 3 dimensions that the author can utilized to convey his or her message. Often times, videos are more effective at communicating ideas than just text mediums. Therefore, to evaluate a video, we must consider all dimensions as well as their interaction with each other.  With this in mind, let us begin the analysis of the video. 
Introduction screen (Clearly stating what the video’s argument is about)
The video begins with the phrase “Shhhhhh, the Earth is Flat” as to give the impression that the knowledge of that the “Earth is Flat” is more or less a secret. [7] Followed by text “The Earth is Flat” in big bold letters with changing fonts and background visuals, accompanied by dramatic music that creates a suspenseful atmosphere, implying that the Earth being flat is a secret that will change the audience’s world. Just from that part, the video effectively introduces the premise in a clear and concise manner. From only the first few seconds of the video, the audience can easily deduct that the argument will be about Flat Earth, establishing a solid foundation upon which the argument will be built, thus meeting one of the requirements of an effective argument.
Another crucial component of an argument is credibility of both the author and the sources used to build logical deductions. The credibility of the author greatly depends on how knowledgeable he or she is on the subject. An author who lacks credibility is often time ignorant to the true scale and depth of the subject, thus their argument tends to be flawed in some manner. As for the credibility of sources, there are two components that determines this. The first component is credibility of the author of the source which follows the same requirement as mentioned above for any author of any argument. While the second being the relevance to the argument, as there must exist a logical reasoning as to why the source relates to one’s argument. The second reason why credibility of sources is important is that all arguments are built upon pre-existing arguments, and so having a non-credible source will effectively ensure that all deductions derived from it will be nonsense. Going back to the video, let’s examine the video’s author credibility on the topic of “Flat Earth” which belongs to the study of astronomy. For any person to have credibility on the topic of “Flat Earth” they should at least have extensive knowledge in the field of astronomy to fortify their argument, but this is not the case with the author of this channel. To start, the author’s channel is named “World History Official”, which when opening the profile and history page of the author, every single video that he or she posted is about arguing for Flat Earth. Aside from the fact that the channel’s title is grammatically incorrect which already hampers the author credibility, almost every single video posted exhibits distinct features of common click-bait practices, categorized by ALL CAPS TITLES and red arrows pointing to some random thing to draw the audience’s attention to it. [7] These tactics are often used to hook in unsuspecting viewers only to disappoint them with poor quality content, thus hurting the author’s credibility even further. [1] There is, however, one thing that effectively throws the authors credibility out of the window, and that is the video’s description. 
Almost no sense of capitalization nor grammar was shown. Clearly, this person is not educated in the simplest foundations of the English language nevertheless astronomy. Indeed, the author did state that he or she “had a speech disorder” - emphasis on “had”, but nevertheless that is no excuse for such display of atrocious grammar. For the credibility of the sources that the video uses, there is not a single citation anywhere in the video from which the author derives his or her deduction. Instead, throughout the video, the author shows images, which are often times random images from Google that originates from websites that have no credibility whatsoever, such as FlatEarthConspracy.com, therefore failing one of the two requirements for credible sources.
As for the second component of credibility of the source, for the most part he or she manages to keep the images relevant to the topic, however there are cases such as the image below.  The author claims that these pictures are from the ISS, yet clearly, they are from Apollo 8 astronaut Bill Anderes who took the picture on the moon in 1968, making the source irrelevant to the argument the author was attempting to make. [6]
In all, every argument that the author makes in this video suffers from lackluster sources, hampering the effectiveness of his or her argument, which was expected considering the credibility of the author in the first place.
The third component of the argument is the valid logical deductions derived from the sources, however, this assumes that the sources are credible in the first place. Valid logical deductions are simply the connection from the source material to the claim of the argument that is consistent with all known observations and evidence. One cannot cherry-pick observations and evidence to base deductions upon, as such attempts often signify the omission of evidence that would disprove the argument.  An example of this is when a person throws a ball into the sky, a valid logical deduction is that the ball will eventually fall to the ground based on the axioms defined by the law of classical mechanics defined by Newton’s law of motion which was created to describe the observation of gravity and its effects on objects and agrees with all observations made on the matter thus far. In the video however, ignoring the fact that the sources used for the deductions are non-credible in the first place, almost every deduction that the author makes omits certain observations known to science that would disprove it. For example, in one of the supporting arguments that the author of the video makes, is that when the moon is in the new moon phase of the lunar cycle, there should be a black silhouette of the moon seen in the sky produce by the moon’s shadow caused by the Sun’s light, completely ignoring the observation made by many astronomers that shows that the moon’s elliptical orbit path is tilted 5 degrees in respect to the Earth and Sun plane. This tilt is what causes the moon’s inability to create a total solar eclipse every new moon phase, therefore invalidating the author’s deduction. [2] There are many more examples of these invalid deductions throughout the entire video. Some don’t even have any observation or evidence that supports the deduction, such as stating that “the horizon has nothing to do with the shape of the world, and everything to with distance” for which I was unable to find any source that supports that notion. Cumulatively, the video’s argument is lack in a strong logical component.
There is one more component that determines the argument effectiveness that wasn’t mention above, and that is emotional appeals. Unlike the logical side of an argument, emotional appeals are less objective and more of subjective in nature. Its effectiveness depends on the target audience’s feeling towards the topic, and relies on certain techniques that could arouse certain emotions in the them. An example would be using fighting words to arise the feeling of anger and hatred in the audience, a technique that have been used in high frequency by our current president, Donald Trump. We are susceptible to emotions, it causes us to think illogical even when the evidence is overwhelming against our beliefs. This is what responsible for certain illogical arguments that fails on the logical side to survive and perpetuate. Conspiracy theories like the “Flat-Earth” argument we analyze fall under this category. There are two key aspects that allow these theories to perpetuate, ignorance and the need for uniqueness. Ignorance deals with the logical side of the argument, that given certain observation and evidence, a theory such as “Flat-Earth” would be possible, thus implying that the more knowledgeable the target individual is, the less likely they will believe in such a far fetch claimed. [5] Using this fact, certain arguments will be more effective on audience that is ignorant about the subject. One doesn’t know that he or she is wrong without the correct knowledge. The less they know the better. As for uniqueness, it is a tradeoff between conformity and individualism. Everyone one of us have a desire to differentiate ourselves from the masses, it is what makes us feel “special”. Each of us have a unique way of separate us from the crowed. For conspiracy advocate, their sense of individualism comes from the notion that they know a secret, the “truth” that the masses are ignorant to. Regardless if they know that their argument is invalid, they will uphold their belief in fear of losing their individualism, therefore people who have a high individualistic behavior tendency are more prone to conspiracy theories. [4] Using carefully crafted sentences, authors can appeal the audience feelings and emotions to better convince them to agree with the author’s claim. For the educated among us, these conspiracies theories fail to convince us, but for others that might not be the case. The Flat Earth video by World History Official have quite a considerable amount of people supporting the theory, simply based off the video ratings and comment section. As illogical the video’s argument may be, its emotional appeals is what makes if effective for certain audiences.
No matter what your occupation is, we are surrounded by arguments every single second of our lives. Advertisements, family and friends, professors, even conspiracies theories are all means of convincing us to believe in their claim. We are logical creatures; however our emotions sometimes can take us down the wrong path. Extreme arguments such as the Flat Earth video that was analyze in this paper are one of many arguments that relies on emotional appeals instead of logic to convince us, as such, often times we just need to take a step back and ask ourselves if the arguments being made are sound. We should not let our emotions cloud our judgement, and so the general rule of thumb is to take everything with a grain of salt. Don’t follow blindly, think for yourself.

